Good afternoon, everybody.
I would like to introduce
you to session 704,
Introduction to
QuickTime Streaming Server.
At this time,
I'd like to introduce our speaker,
Victor Alexander,
who will take you through the world
of real-time streaming with QuickTime.
Victor comes from the software
engineering team at Apple,
and he formerly worked for the
Apple technical training team where he
wrote a course on QuickTime streaming.
So you will all be in
good hands with Victor.
Take it away.
As Stephen said,
I'd worked previously moving
to software engineering.
I'd worked on a course
called QuickTime Streaming,
obviously related to this topic.
This is a copy of it.
I'll make it available for your
review after the session's over.
So if you want to take
a quick look at it,
just make sure it ends up back
in my hands after we're all done.
Welcome to Introduction
to QuickTime Streaming.
Hopefully you're in the right section.
If you haven't wandered down
the hall and got disoriented,
you were looking for the MPEG-4
section next door and wandered in here.
We're going to cover some
real-world steps for QTSS.
So hopefully I'll give you some skills
today that will allow you to go back to
your home office environment and actually
use QTSS and QuickTime Broadcaster
and have some fun with it.
Whether you realize it or not,
streaming actually is a huge
portion of the traffic that
actually moves across the internet.
Right now,
we're actually partaking in a stream.
You just don't know it right now.
What will happen is the videotape
that they're actually taking of
this particular session will be
taken back and captured and actually
compressed and actually put up on
the developer website at Apple.
They'll also produce a DVD of it.
And those sessions will be streamed
out to participants who participate in
the developer connection organization.
So what we're doing right now
is actually we're actually
doing a video on demand stream.
It's just not going to
show up for a few weeks.
So quick show of hands,
how many folks have had any
exposure to QuickTime Streaming
Server in any fashion?
Hands up.
Okay, okay.
How many folks are very
experienced at QuickTime Streaming?
Good, good, because I was going to send
you to another session.
Excellent.
So what I want you to do,
since this is eventually going to be
a stream somewhere on the Apple site,
somewhere for some developer session,
someone to watch and review
and get information from,
I want you to say hello to them, because,
of course, you know,
they'll get some joy and
probably a good giggle out of it.
So on the count of three,
I want you to say, Hi, ADC, right,
Apple Developer Connection.
So on the count of three, say, Hi, ADC.
And when they watch this
stream a few weeks later,
they'll get a good kick out of it.
All right, ready?
One, two, three.
Hi, ADC.
Excellent.
You just participated in
a video-on-demand stream.
Congratulations.
That concludes my session.
Okay, all right, all right, okay.
I'm just kidding.
So let's move on to the
actual real content.
Stephen Tonna,
thank you for introducing me.
Again, my name is Victor Alexander.
My extremely long title,
Mac OS X Server Software Seed Engineer,
is my current position at Apple,
very enjoyable.
I work with the server as a whole,
but I have a particular
love for QuickTime Streaming
Server and Broadcaster,
as you'll hopefully see in
the next 60-odd minutes.
Here's a high-level introduction
of what we're going to cover.
I'll give you a bit of background
on the topic of real-time
streaming very briefly,
just to give you a basement
level of knowledge.
We'll do some setup and configuration
of the actual streaming server,
which I hope you'll find useful.
I'm going to focus on
QuickTime Streaming Server and
QuickTime Broadcaster specifically.
Those aren't the only
tools that are available,
especially for QuickTime Broadcaster.
So just be aware that I happen
to be demoing these tools,
but the basic concept that
I'm demonstrating actually
apply to other tools.
For example,
QuickTime Broadcaster is not the
only piece of software in that space,
so I'd encourage you to check
out what other offerings there
are after this session's over.
I'll cover where possible some new
features of QuickTime Streaming Server 5,
which is actually included
with Panther Server.
And I'll try to provide you with as
many real-world examples as I can.
A little more detail.
So let's see what you'll learn.
Again, we'll do an introduction
to QTSS 5 and QTB.
I'll do the initial setup for
the streaming server and walk
you through the settings,
especially since there's some
new tools there to be seen.
I'll show you how to prepare
media specifically for streaming.
We'll work with playlists.
We'll create some playlists.
We'll show you how those function,
how they behave.
We'll do a little bit of live streaming
where you're going to be my talent,
so to speak.
And we'll talk a little bit about the
QuickTime Streaming server publisher.
Now, we should have enough time
for some question and answer,
where folks can just walk up to the
mic and ask me some questions on
things I may or may not have covered.
Okay?
Sounds good.
Let's go at it.
So what is real-time streaming?
I'm just going to try and give you
a basic run-through of what it is so
that we can start from ground level.
After all my talking for 60
minutes and everything I'm going
to say in the next little while,
what I really want you to remember from
this particular slide is that all we're
doing in real-time streaming is we're
moving media from the server to the
client over a network in real time.
There's some time sensitivity
that's involved in that process,
but really that's all we're doing.
We're pushing the media files
from the server to the client
over a network in real time.
We're going to use
some network protocols.
In that process, we're going to use some
industry standards.
We're going to use RTP,
which is Real Time Transport Protocol,
and RTSP.
They're brother and sister
protocols that work together to
get that video information off of
the server down to your machine,
where you're watching your favorite rock
concert or your favorite teacher run
through their session in psychology,
whatever it is,
so you can watch your information.
Those protocols work hand-in-hand
to deliver the information.
I'll reference RTP and RTSP a
couple of times during the session.
So I just wanted to get those acronyms
out there and just say that they're the
foundational protocols for streaming.
Well,
the nice things in terms of the folks
who are delivering the information
is that there's no file that's
actually written to the client's
machine during the streaming process.
Now, that's important.
If you have gone to all the trouble
to film a music video or whatever
particular piece of event it is,
and you've done all the editing
and all the compression,
all that work in advance,
and you want to get the
word out to everybody,
but you don't want to necessarily
leave them with a copy of
those files on their computer.
You want to maintain the
control of that media.
This particular aspect of
real-time streaming is important.
So no file gets left on
the client's machine.
All they're left with
is they get to watch,
say, a concert,
or watch a class or a session,
whatever they're viewing.
And all they're left with is the
good memories from that event.
No files are on their hard drive.
There's three ways to present content
in terms of the streaming server.
I won't talk about in this
session the traditional way or
the slightly older mechanism or
what's been around for longer,
the way of delivering QuickTime files
by simply copying them to a web server,
which is what you typically
see on the Apple Trailer site.
Folks have seen the
Apple Trailer site with movies?
Yes, nodding heads, good.
That's just simply copying
a file to a web server.
That's not typically real-time streaming,
although people generically
call it streaming.
I'm really talking about using
a streaming server and sending
this information on the fly.
So the three mechanisms that you
can use streaming server for are you
can use a simple video on demand.
A client asks for a video,
and the server delivers it.
And the person watches the content,
and it stops, and you're done.
In fact,
that's how these sessions will likely
be delivered once they go online,
is a video on demand or a VOD setup.
The second is a simulated live,
more commonly called playlists.
And what you can liken it to is a
radio broadcast on the internet.
So you've used various different players
likely to listen to music online.
This is a similar approach to that.
It's very similar to what
traditional radio is if you
turn on your radio in your car.
You just drop in and listen to whatever
portion of the stream is happening.
The third and probably the most
exciting and what typically draws
people to streaming is live streams.
So you can do a live presentation
where the information is
routed onto the internet,
and people can watch as it happens.
How many folks have either watched
or been to a keynote from Apple?
Of course, right?
Lots of you.
So that technique is getting--
getting to be extremely common,
and not just from Apple.
Other folks are doing them quite
successfully outside of Apple.
So remember the basic model
that I mentioned as the first
item of the previous slide,
right?
You've got a server,
you've got a network,
and you've got a client, right?
Anything missing?
We've got our media, right?
So your media files have to
sit on the server and they
get delivered to the client.
So that's the basic model
I want you to keep in mind.
Very, very simple.
Now, let's talk a little bit about
the streaming server itself.
I'll give you some background on the
actual product before we demo it.
It's based completely on open standards.
I mentioned RTP and RTSP.
Those standards are ratified by the IETF,
an international organization
which exactly does that.
It ratifies open standards.
So the streaming server,
wherever possible,
adheres to those standards.
Why do you think they might do that?
If other tools want to be
developed by other companies that
interact or interoperate with
the QuickTime Streaming Server,
all they have to do is read those same
standards and develop the application
adhering to those same standards.
Very, very useful.
A single server can handle
literally thousands of streams.
Thousands of streams.
So it's very, very impressive.
That's one way how we do
streams that are so large.
So we can do tens of thousands of streams
watching a live keynote at Macworld,
for example, or WWDC.
We have several servers working
in unison that can handle these.
But each one itself can handle 2,000
or 3,000 streams without a problem.
QuickTime Streaming Server in
its last major revision
offered support for MPEG-4.
It continues, obviously,
to offer support for MPEG-4.
So if you're creating MPEG-4
files for those folks who do the
compression authoring side of it,
you can use your MPEG-4 files
on QTSS without a problem.
We'll actually show that as well today.
The Streaming Server also provides
a nice feature called Instant On.
If you've used streaming
for more than a year or two,
you're probably used to the
sequence where you go to a web
page and you click on an event,
and usually the QuickTime player
or your player launches.
Then you wait a few seconds while
the broadcast actually queues up,
right?
It buffers.
So you wait your six or eight
or 12 seconds while it buffers.
Instant on, for folks who are on
broadband connections,
so DSL, cable, office connections,
high-speed optical connections,
will actually have that buffering
time reduced to virtually zero.
So it actually feels like,
to the viewers,
that they're playing a file
off their local machine,
right?
It's actually not.
It's being streamed,
but it looks and feels that way.
You can scrub through the file,
you can start playing it
from virtually any point,
and it feels instant.
It really is instant.
The Streaming Server comes with a
remote-based web administration tool.
I'll show that to you as well.
It's really similar in terms
of its design to Apache.
So for folks who have used
Apache in terms of administering it,
or maybe you develop
components for Apache,
you'll see that the design methodology
for Apache is very similar to QCSS.
And one bit of clarification to clear up,
how many folks have heard
of Darwin Streaming Server?
Okay, so enough of you to make
it worth mentioning it.
QuickTime Streaming
Server and Darwin Streaming
Server are twin brothers.
The only difference is the name.
Feature-wise,
they're virtually equivalent
for the core server features.
The difference is that Darwin Streaming
Server is available for platforms
other than Mac OS X Server.
So if you see the list at
the bottom of the slide,
Darwin Streaming Server is
available for Mac OS X.
Linux, Solaris, Windows NT, and 2000.
That's an extensive list.
So you can literally run
Streaming Server on a variety
of different platforms.
Now,
I always get someone in the very back
that puts their hands up and says,
you know, I have FreeBSD or some
other version of Unix,
for example, and I want to run
Darwin Streaming Server.
Can I do it?
Of course.
The open source,
the actual programming code is
available from Apple to download.
And of course,
you can take that code and compile it on
your particular server class workstation,
compile it,
and you can run Darwin Streaming Server.
It may or may not require
a couple of subtle tweaks,
but you can get it working and
running on your particular platform.
I think we've offered a decent list
of platforms to start with in terms
of downloads for ready-to-go binaries.
Right?
So essentially, when I say QTSS and
Darwin Streaming Server,
really they're the same product.
There's a differentiation there that
I think I've clarified pretty well.
There's a brand new application that's
bundled with the Panther Server.
It's called Server Admin.
It's brand new in terms of its look and
some of the extra features it includes.
It also includes administration
abilities for QuickTime Streaming Server,
which is actually new.
So, we'll take a look at Server Admin
and see what you can do.
You can monitor and admin
the server from that tool.
Very, very useful.
You can configure things like IP binding,
if you happen to know what that is.
Some of the relaying
that the server can do.
You can also check the number
of users and the amount of data
that's going through the server
at any one moment with these very,
very beautifully rendered graphs.
Also, you can do remote administration.
So, you can have a copy of Server Admin
running on one machine back in your
office while you're eating your donuts.
And of course,
you can control your streaming server,
which is in the closet, maybe in a rack,
for example, and monitor it,
see what's going on,
and configure it and work with it.
So let's take a look at
the Streaming Server.
We'll do an initial
setup and run-through.
So on computer 2 here,
You'll notice a couple of new
icons on the dock of note is
the one I've got highlighted,
which is Server Admin.
Of course, you can use it for lots of
different configuration items,
but what we really care about is,
in this session,
is QuickTime Streaming Server.
I'm connected to the machine that's
actually I'm in front of right now,
so I'm doing local administration.
And the machine's called QTSS Intro.
I simply turn down the
arrow on the left-hand side,
and it denotes all the available
services that I can possibly run.
The services that are actually active,
that are turned on,
that are ready to receive
calls are actually in bold.
So currently only open
directory is bold or running.
If we click on
QuickTime Streaming on the left,
we get a 10,000-foot view of
what's going on with the server.
We can see that it's currently stopped.
It's current throughput,
it's number of users connected,
and a little bit of a status here.
It simply takes going to the
Start Service button at the top center
of the window to turn the server on.
And that's it.
That activates your service, your server,
excuse me,
you get an update at the bottom
of what it was turned on.
Now we can move through the bottom
buttons along the lower area here.
And I'll just step through them one by
one just to clarify what's going on.
We've got the ability on the
server to log what's happening.
So you can see logs and events.
This happens to help greatly
with troubleshooting.
If there's an issue with your server,
you can see what the last few events are.
Not only do you get the
error log as shown here,
but the access log.
So who has connected to your
server and asked for streams?
You can see I have a few
streams that have been requested
before the session started.
What you'll take note
of in the access log
is that roughly about 40 parameters
are recorded when clients connect
and actually watch a stream.
So a massive amount of data is recorded.
I mean, it's just textual,
but a massive amount of
useful data is recorded.
If someone watches a stream
and then disconnects,
the access log is actually updated
when the client disconnects.
So keep that in mind for
troubleshooting or for any kind
of investigation of the log.
If you want to see someone
who's currently connected,
you won't see an entry
here until they disconnect.
They close the window,
and the session ends.
And so 40 parameters.
I'll switch to the connections tab, very,
very useful tab.
If I can remember,
I'll try and jump back here while
we're actually doing some test streams.
This gives you a list of users that
are connected to your streaming
server and some stats about their
current stream they're watching.
The type of stream,
it can be an MPEG-4 movie
stream or an MP3 stream,
since the server supports
MP3 streaming as well.
Their IP address, their bit rate,
how many bytes they've been sent,
and most importantly, the percentage of
packets they've received.
So if they didn't get
all of the actual stream,
you can see how much degradation
in the actual video quality.
You can also check out what they're
connected to in terms of content.
So you can see what actual movie
or stream or et cetera that
they're actually linked up to.
Here's the beautiful graphs I alluded to.
You get to see,
you can check in this case on
how many users have connected.
I hope your streaming servers
are a little busier than
mine in particular is here.
I hope you have more than
two people connected at once,
but we did a quick test to get the
graphs pop up and we got two connected,
but 1.5 or two users
connected on average.
We also get to switch to throughput.
You can see exactly how much data,
information, how much content's
flowing out of the server.
I typically would monitor this
for myself for a real event during
peak times for only brief moments.
It's usually just to check in
to make sure my server is not
struggling with an overloaded amount
of people trying to watch the content.
So I usually want to make sure
that I'm not hitting any limits in
terms of what the server can do.
So for example,
500 streams running off the server
and the actual video is fairly skinny,
slim piece of video,
that's not a problem for
the streaming server.
You notice you can slide the duration
so you can see exactly from one hour all
the way up to seven days of the graph.
You'll notice I did a test about an hour
ago to make sure everything was running.
And finally, I move to the Settings tab.
Notice when I click Settings,
I get a number of buttons up
across the top of the interface.
This is really the meat and potatoes
of the configuration of the server.
The media directory denotes exactly where
the server is going to look for movies,
files, and content.
So you want to select a folder where
your actual files are going to be,
right?
The default's not a bad location,
but you may want to move
this to an alternate drive.
Let's say you have a huge amount
of movies you want to provide
via your streaming server.
You want to reroute it
to another hard drive.
You can do that via two mechanisms.
It depends which kind of a system
administrator you might be.
The GUI way would be to click the button
to the right and get a column view,
which you can simply scroll through
and select the correct folder.
You can obviously reroute
it to another hard drive.
If terminal is your best friend,
you can maybe take another
approach of typing the information
directly into this file path area,
where you can--
Where you can do something
like the following,
where you can type in volumes,
which actually starts you at the very,
very top level of the operating
system above the hard drives,
then type in the drive name,
then type in the subfolders.
So in that way,
you can actually scale your way over to
other hard drives that are connected.
I like the default, so I will select
QuickTime Streaming and Movies.
I'll choose that.
Briefly,
the maximum number of connections
and maximum throughput,
just to note the ceiling the server
will allow for connected users and
the amount of data that's leaving.
You should set these options that are as
appropriate to your internet connection.
I can't really tell you the perfect
answer for your particular installation,
but if you have a
corporate installation of,
say, DSL,
I would probably say that 100 megabits
isn't probably the right fit if you're
sending movies from the streaming
server out beyond your office.
You might want to tune that down to
one megabit or two or three megabits as
appropriate for your internet connection.
If you're streaming inside of
your office or inside of your
school or inside of your campus,
for example,
where you've got Ethernet everywhere,
then 100 megabits for the maximum
throughput is probably a suitable level.
The check mark on the bottom actually
is a feature of Server Admin.
The question was, what's the check mark?
The check mark on the bottom
actually will allow you to copy
settings that you've denoted in this
particular option we've selected,
which is QuickTime Streaming Server.
You can drag them to other
servers you're administering,
and it will copy those options across.
You can also save them out, I believe,
and apply them to other servers.
I don't want to take any
other sessions thunder away,
but if you want to check that out,
I'm sure there's a streaming server
overview that will cover that.
Quickly for access,
this is where you can set things
like an MP3 broadcast password.
So you can actually have a piece of
software that can send MP3 streams
to your streaming server and actually
send those streams out to the internet.
It's best to set a password for that,
so you can enter that there.
If you want to accept
incoming broadcasts,
you can do that here as well.
We'll be doing that
later with a live stream.
So we'll take a look
at that in more detail.
We can also enable the
web-based administration,
which actually I'm going
to go ahead and do.
Web-based administration literally
lets us use any web browser that
can see our server to administer
the streaming server machine.
So I'll turn this on,
and we'll check back on
that in a moment or two.
I'll skip past the
IP bindings and relays.
It's a little bit more
of an advanced session.
If you want to get insight on more
advanced topics like these two tabs,
I'll refer to the advanced
session that's coming up,
I believe, tomorrow.
I'll point it out at
the end of the session.
For logging,
I'll point out one more thing with
respect to logging on this tab.
I highly recommend actually you
turn on logging for both error
and access logs and have them
roll themselves over periodically.
You only probably learn that
lesson well after 5,000 people
show up and watch your stream.
So I would recommend
turning those two on,
have them archive, say,
every seven days or every month,
and just make sure that
they're actually archiving.
It really leaves you a good breadcrumb
trail that you can refer to to see
what happened with your server in
case there was a problem or anything.
issue.
So a lot of talking, a lot of showing,
but basically I turn the server on.
If I literally just click Start Service,
my server would be running.
So how do I know it's running?
The server admin says it's running,
but how do I know it's running?
If I can switch to computer 3,
there's a simple test that
you can do to make sure your
streaming server is running.
And basically,
when you install QuickTime Streaming
Server or you install
Mac OS X Server at large,
you get some sample files
included in the movies folder.
You may have seen them for a
moment when I reselected my
media folder in Server Admin.
There's some sample files that we
provide you that we know work properly.
So you don't have to go and find your
own content and prepare it and work
on it in order for your streaming
server to actually be testable.
I can simply launch
QuickTime Player on my client machine.
And normally you would get
to a stream via a web page.
That's traditionally how you ultimately
want to announce your streams.
I'm not going to talk about that
at all because there's a great
session coming up this week called
QuickTime for the Web with Stephen Gould.
You may know the book by the same name.
He's going to extensively
cover that topic.
I'm simply going to just use a great
trick for system administrators and
folks wanting to test the server.
to just get directly at the
stream and make sure that
my stream server is working.
So I'm going to select URL in New Player.
This gives me the opportunity
to type in an address to ask
the server for a test file.
Now, it's not going to be HTTP, right?
Because remember those protocols we
were talking about the server using?
We're going to use RTSP.
We're going to use one of the twin
protocols that makes streaming possible.
So I'm going to enter in RTSP,
the address of my server,
in this case an IP address,
and the sample files are literally
called sample underscore 300kbit.move,
100kbit.move,
and there's the equivalent MPEG-4 files.
So I can request this
by simply clicking OK,
and if all goes well,
my stream will appear.
So if I wasn't quite as long-winded,
I could set the server up and
test it in less than two minutes.
So we've got a running stream.
This is just a loop of the QuickTime.
It will run for about a minute to
make sure your stream is running.
Now I want to point out a couple
things about this particular movie,
in that it's slightly
different from typical movies
you play off your hard drive.
I'm going to show movie information and
just point out a couple of details here.
Typically, when you play a movie,
and Paul Z.
Typically when you play a
movie from your hard drive,
the source in the information
panel on the right typically says,
you know,
the path to the file on your hard drive.
Well, we're not doing that.
We're streaming, right?
So it makes sense to
provide the RTSP location.
So if you're never sure where your
stream's coming from or if you're really
looking at the correct file or not,
you can refer to the information panel.
It will tell you exactly
where that file's coming from,
both server and the actual file name.
The other bits of information
in the Info Panel are helpful,
but I'll point out the
bottom two specifically.
Let me back this file up and replay it.
The bit rate and quality items at the
very bottom of the movie info pane are
extremely useful for administrators.
Extremely useful for administrators.
The bit rate denotes exactly how
much information is flowing to
your client at any one moment.
So for example, this particular movie.
is roughly around 500 kilobits.
It's doing some work to actually queue
up more than just a few seconds of it.
It's roughly around 500 kilobits or so.
But notice the quality.
The quality says 100%. That's what
you always want to try and get.
If all your clients can get
100% in that quality setting,
that means that they're not losing
any of the details of the stream.
If the quality is set, for example,
85%, that means that 15% of the
stream that's coming down to
them is either not arriving,
or it's not being dealt with,
or it's being discarded for some reason,
and it's being lost.
That results in pieces of
the video being missing,
or the audio dropping out,
or the audio garbling itself.
So if you're running into problems and
you're trying to do some troubleshooting,
I would investigate the quality
and bit rate panels to see if
you're getting what you expect,
especially the 100% quality.
That's very useful.
But I was able to test the server
without producing any files.
I just simply go and ask
for one of the samples.
Very, very, very easy.
Let's switch back to slides.
So I've turned the server on.
I've checked out the options.
Server admin is kind of cool.
I like it.
I think I'll use it.
We'll check out the web
admin a little bit later.
I got to test my sample file.
But how do I make my own movies?
How do I do that?
Well, hopefully you have a crack staff of
videographers and filmographers and
you go out and shoot everything you
want and then they come back and they
can compress it for you and prepare
all the media for you and everything.
What I'll really focus on is once you
have files that are already edited in,
say, something like Final Cut,
and they're really in their final state,
what do you do from there to take
them onto the streaming server?
So if you want to check out on how to
prepare video content and compress it,
there's a session at 5 o'clock today.
I believe it's called
Pre-Processing Techniques,
which will take you through
that authoring process.
Previous to this step.
But once you have a file
that's been prepared,
it's ready to go, it's compressed, it's,
say, a 50 megabyte file,
it's a 20-minute promotional video,
there is one step you need to do.
It's called hinting.
It's not very difficult,
but it's a required step you have to do.
QuickTime and MPEG-4
require the hinting process.
Notice I say MP3 does not require it.
So if you're working with
QuickTime or MP4 files,
you have to do this hinting process.
Media must be processed
before real-time delivery.
It absolutely has to be.
The actual step that's
performed is QuickTime movies,
MPEG-4 movies are made up of tracks.
The hinting process simply adds a
couple more of these tracks called,
funny enough,
hint tracks that help the server
understand how it's to cut up the
movie to send it over the network.
It can't just take the entire
movie in one foul swoop and
send it across as one big blob.
It needs to cut it up.
Those hint tracks give the server a hint,
hence the name,
of how to cut that media up into smaller
bits so they can send it out broken up,
and on the other end,
the client can play it back.
Again, not difficult,
but it's absolutely required.
The process really involves using
some sort of authoring tool.
The easiest and most inexpensive
one typically is QuickTime Pro.
That's a version of QuickTime.
You already have QuickTime typically
installed in your machine if you're
running any recent versions in
the last few years of the Mac OS.
Obviously, Mac OS X comes with either
QuickTime 5 or QuickTime 6.
All you simply have to
do is purchase a key,
a serial number for $29.95.
That turns on a number of key
features in QuickTime Pro,
one of which that we care about
is an export option that appears
in the Pro version of the player.
That lets you export
media for compression,
but we also can do hinting.
So it's really just an export
on the files that have already
been edited in Final Cut Pro,
for example.
Other tools offer this hinting process.
For example, folks have heard of Cleaner,
Media Cleaner, previously named,
that also does hinting.
A number of other video tools tend to
do hinting as part of their process.
A key thing to remember with
hinting is it should be the
very last thing that you do.
If you edited all your video and
crunched it down to a small file,
and then you hint it,
and then you make some
other change to the video,
that's not going to work.
You have to go and re-hint the video.
So it should be the very, very,
very last thing you do before you send
the file up to the streaming server.
Here's an example of the
MPEG-4 pane for exporting.
I'll walk you through that right now.
So I'll switch to computer two.
Hi, I'm a high server admin here.
Let's go take a look
at some of our content.
Let's take a brief look
at this particular video.
It's an MPEG-4 compressed video.
I, of course,
have a crack team of filmographers who
go out and film Red Hot Chili Peppers
for me and bring it all back and
edit it and compress it for me.
I've got this video I want to
put on the streaming server.
It's an MPEG-4 file,
totally supported by the server.
It's a fairly large file,
but it's perfectly
suitable for streaming.
I'll point out one thing before
I do the actual streaming process.
I'll go to Movie Properties.
This is a pane that you get in both
the regular version of QuickTime,
but you get an enhanced version in the
pro version of QuickTime that's $29.95.
Let's take a look at this
pop-up item right here.
This shows us exactly what tracks
are available inside of the movie.
Notice there's a soundtrack video track
and then two MPEG-4 tracks at the bottom.
You'll notice in the center
I've got a hinted video track
and a hinted soundtrack,
right?
So I've already hinted
this file previously.
I'm going to remove it and just
redo the process to show it to you.
This is what a file looks like
when it's already been hinted.
It's already been hinted.
A soundtrack, a video track,
it's got hints for each
one of those tracks,
and it's got some required
tracks for MPEG-4 compliance.
I'm going to go and delete some tracks.
This is a feature of QuickTime Pro.
I'm going to remove them.
I now have what would be a stock
video file that I would work on.
So to hint a movie, it's very,
very simple.
File menu and select Export.
I'm going to select the option
in the bottom left-hand corner
that says "Movie to MPEG-4."
I don't want to change
anything about this file.
I don't want to do any
other kind of compression,
audio, any kind of work at all.
I just want to add those extra tracks.
If I click Options--
I get a very,
very probably well-known by at least
some of you MPEG-4 export panel.
If you've done any kind
of MPEG-4 file creation,
you're probably very
familiar with this panel.
It's got five major elements.
The general-- since I don't want
to actually edit this video or do
any kind of other changes except
add those required hint tracks,
I'm going to select pass-through
for the video and audio.
That means just take the data in
the original file and just shift
it over to the brand new one.
Don't do anything else to it.
Just shuttle it over.
You'll notice if I go to the
video tabs and the audio tabs,
pass-through is selected.
All the regular elements you
might select if you're trying to
compress a video are grayed out.
The tab we really care
about is the streaming tab.
And of course, for hinting type,
I already have streaming basics selected.
If I didn't want to hint this,
I would select none.
But of course, we do want to hint this.
The two options below,
which are maximum packet
size and maximum duration,
are great options.
If you happen to know what they mean,
great.
But in 99.9% of the cases that
I've run into and I've compressed
and hinted a lot of media,
I've never ever changed those settings.
So I probably wouldn't tweak
those settings unless you either
know exactly what they mean,
or you have a case to do so.
Like I said, 99% of the videos I run into
never require this to be modified.
I can click OK, pick a location for
the file to be sent to,
and simply clicking Save will
hint the file and export it.
I've been watching a lot of
cooking shows on the Food Network,
so I like to do things
like the cooking show.
So I've already prepared a number
of videos that are pre-inted.
So let's take a look at some of those.
We've got-- let's go and open
the Red Hot Chili Peppers.
Just to reiterate,
now we've got-- what will be added
is an MPEG-4 hinted video track and
an MPEG-4 hinted soundtrack will be
added during that export process.
We'll end up with six tracks,
in this case, total.
So does it work?
Let's take a look.
If we want to actually add
media to our streaming server,
we need to put those files in
the location that we saw earlier.
Remember, library,
QuickTime Streaming movies.
So let's copy a file into that
location and give it a try.
So I'm going to switch to column view.
I'll go into library.
QuickTime Streaming and Movies, right?
There's our samples we saw earlier.
Let's take our--
and Chili Pepper will copy over there.
If I could switch to computer three.
Now let's see if my
hinting process worked.
So again,
normally we get this file via web page.
I'm just going to do it the somewhat
manual way of just asking for a URL.
And we'll type in the actual name.
You can type.
My attempt to change the man's name.
Let's take a look and see.
Oh, did I mistype?
Of course I did.
Yes, thank you.
It worked.
Perfect.
Hinting.
Very, very simple.
Oh, do I get a mini applause for that?
Maybe.
The hinting process is very, very simple.
If you're not the one actually
doing any kind of compression
work or editing on the video,
and your job is simply to actually
add files to the streaming server,
the hinting process is very, very easy.
It's one tab, select the option,
and export it.
The export time for this particular file,
by the way, is roughly about a minute
to a minute and 20 seconds.
And that's on moderate towers.
That's not even the latest and greatest.
I'll bring up another InfoPanel
to show off another feature here,
especially since we've got a longer clip.
I'll bring up the movie properties again
that I just showed you the track listing.
You'll notice when a file's being
streamed out to someone's machine,
they're a viewer watching
it from their computer,
you notice that the track listing that
I'm showing you is extremely short.
All it says is streaming track.
Well, the video and audio that's sent
down to the viewer actually just
gets congealed in terms of how they
see it as just one streaming track,
but there's actually some great
information inside this properties
panel that can be discovered.
If I select streaming track here
and then go and dig for further
information in the right-hand pop-up,
I can select information like
frame rate to see how quickly
the video's playing back.
The original source for this
particular video is 24 frames a second,
so it looks like I'm
getting full speed playback,
but even better is the bit rate.
So if you select streaming track on the
client machine while the video is playing
and bitrate from the right-hand pop-up,
we get a great little status.
Have folks seen this?
Raise your hand if you've seen
this little info bar before.
Okay, not too many.
So great.
So this is new for some folks.
So you've got data rate information
about how much information is
flowing down to the viewer.
More importantly,
you've got some information
about packet loss,
so data that's not
making it to the client,
which is definitely a bad thing.
And we've got something at
the bottom called buffer size,
which I'll briefly explain in a moment.
If you're trying to determine
whether your videos are playing
back properly on the other end of
the spectrum on your client machine,
for example, you can get your viewers to
inspect their packet loss window
just in the same way I did.
Red in the packet loss window will
denote that there's information
that's being thrown away,
and that's definitely bad.
In the case of lost information,
you'll see blocks of gray that just
simply don't represent any part of the
video at all because the data was lost.
Real-time streaming is
extremely time sensitive,
so that information is being pushed
down as it's being played back,
so there's really no time
to resend information.
You just have to keep on moving.
The buffering size at the
bottom of that window,
QuickTime will actually work to try and
ask for more information of the video
and audio before it has to play it back.
So it will try and pre-download
some of that content in advance.
The nice thing about this is that
will try and help your viewing
client surf through some of the
unpredictable aspects of the internet.
So if the client machine is able to
queue up about five seconds of content
before it actually has to play it,
if there's a dropout in speed,
then the video will continue
to play appropriately.
So you might want to get your
clients to inspect their buffer
size if there is a problem.
Great, my video worked.
Excellent.
Let's go back to slides.
We turned on the server,
we looked at server admin,
we tested a sample file,
we hinted a file,
we added it to the server, we played it,
and we watched it.
So we completed really the
video on demand aspect of it.
Remember there's three
ways to present your media.
Video on demand, I'd say we probably have
demonstrated that pretty well.
Next up is the simulated
live or playlists.
A key test that allows you to
create a preset list of media
to deliver to an audience.
Let's say you want,
you have a set of lectures that you want,
a semester's worth of
lectures from a teacher.
There's ten of them and you want
them to play in a certain order,
right, from the first portion of the
semester to the last portion.
And you just want them to loop
over and over again so that
students on campus can tune into
them and listen to those lectures.
The only way to really do
that is with a playlist.
Video on Demand will just
maybe play one lecture,
or if you strung them all together,
it will only play the entire
thing from start to stop.
Let's say you just want to keep
looping over and over again.
Or you have a CEO's financial address
to the company or maybe to the public,
where you just want to keep it
on loop for the first 24 hours.
If you've ever tried to watch
any of the keynotes from Apple,
after the fact,
they go on this kind of rotating
schedule the exact same way.
They just play over and over
again for the first couple,
first few hours,
maybe the first 24 hours.
Then eventually they go to a
Video on Demand kind of setup.
Whenever viewers tune into anything
that's running on a playlist,
they just jump in wherever
it happens to be playing.
It's literally like turning
on a radio or turning on a TV.
If you turn on a TV at 15
minutes after the hour,
half the show's already played.
You'll just start watching
it right from that spot.
Playlists are exactly the same thing.
So think of them in
terms of broadcast radio,
broadcast television.
There's two types of playlists.
I'm going to focus on one of them.
There's movie playlists,
which generically means
QuickTime and MPEG-4 playlists.
And that's what I'm going to focus on.
Let's go back to slides.
Great.
Two types of playlists.
I'm going to focus on the movie
and QuickTime MPEG-4 playlist.
You can also create MP3 playlists,
which are actually what are called
IceCast-compatible playlists.
If you've ever gone to
websites like live365.com and
listened to internet radio,
you're very likely using that
IceCast standard underneath
the covers to listen to audio.
You can do the exact same thing
with the streaming server,
and you can even send streams to
services like live365.com to actually
relay your playlists out to the world.
But I won't focus on MP3
for this particular session.
I'll keep it strictly
to QuickTime MPEG-4.
You can configure the playlist,
by the way,
via the web-based interface or something
brand new called QTSS Publisher,
which I'll talk about at the very end.
So let's switch to computer two,
and I'll show off the
creation of a playlist.
So let's switch back to-- I'll
just hide server admin here.
So I'll skip to the applications folder.
Inside the applications
folder with Panther Server,
there is a brand new
folder called Server.
It includes a lot of server tools
that you'll want to check out.
If we venture inside there,
there will be actually
a nice little icon,
an application called QTSS Web Admin.
That's the easiest way on the
local server to actually get to
the web-based administration tool.
It's not the only way,
but it's a simple way to do it.
All it does is simply
takes you to a web page.
So if you're thinking,
do I have to be sitting in
front of a Mac to do this?
You don't.
You can sit in front of a Windows machine
and administer this server,
as long as it's a recently downloaded,
recent version of web browsers that can
adhere to most of the current standards.
So.
Recent version of Internet Explorer,
Safari, of course.
All those things will do for
virtually any machine that can
see that server on the network.
For the folks who love
things like IP addresses,
port numbers, et cetera,
you'll notice that the web
admin is using port 1220.
That's just one door into
the server to talk to it.
And we'll just simply just log in.
The web-based administration tool,
by the way, when you run it,
if you choose to run the server or
control the server using this mechanism,
it doesn't just drop
you into the interface.
On the first run,
it actually takes you through
a kind of setup assistant,
a web-based setup assistant.
So you'll notice I'm just going
to step through a few screens here
that look very similar to what we
already saw in the server admin tool.
We've already filled out
some of this information.
That's the MP3 broadcast password.
It's asking you if you want to do
a secure version of administration.
We'll just, in the media folder,
[Transcript missing]
QTSS web-based administration.
The main screen,
this is a 10,000 foot view of the server.
This is the whole rundown.
It's kind of a top-level scope of
what's going on with the server.
This is usually what I check if I've
got a busy time period on my server.
I usually will check this
location first to see if
there's numbers as I anticipate.
If I'm expecting 40
people to watch a stream,
I want to see the connected
users at kind of about 35,
40 maximum.
To create a playlist in the
web-based administration tool,
very, very simple.
There's a playlist link
on the left-hand side.
I click it.
And again, there's two types of
playlists you can create.
MP3, which I won't do here,
but I encourage you to experiment with.
I'll create a new movie playlist.
And if you notice, on the left-hand side,
there's two columns in the web page now.
On the left-hand side,
we're looking at the current
items inside of our media folder.
So that's inside Library,
QuickTime Streaming, Movies.
That's what's currently inside of there.
If I want to create a playlist,
it's very, very simple.
I can take one item and simply drag
it over to the right-hand column.
That adds it to the
playlist I'm creating.
Of course,
it wouldn't be good enough unless
you could select multiples.
So I just use the Shift key to select
items two and three in that list.
And I can, of course, drag them over.
And it will say multiple items selected,
if you noticed.
While I'm dragging it over, I let go.
And those three items are
now added to the playlist.
Very simple.
I should give my playlist a name.
I'll call it ever so imaginatively, Test.
This is the name that will appear
from an administration standpoint.
So when you go to work with the playlist,
you'll see the name Test.
And we need some way to actually connect
to or attach to or watch the stream,
at least to make sure it's running.
We'll use this mount point terminology,
which I'll explain in a moment
when we play the playlist.
I should point out there's three
ways that playlists can run.
The first is sequential,
which means it will play from
the first item in the list to
the bottom item in the list,
and then will stop.
So if you have a broadcast with content
that's already been prepared and it's
starting at 5 o'clock Eastern time,
you can start the playlist at 5 o'clock.
It will play until it's
complete and it will stop.
And that's it.
Sequentially looped will play from
the first item to the last item,
then it will skip back to the
first item and will just keep
going in a loop infinitely.
And that's what you typically see
with online radio stations or in our
campus radio station or an announcement
that just runs on the network.
You'll usually see it
be sequentially looped.
The coolest option that I think
on a playlist is weighted random.
If you notice on the right-hand
column on the right-hand side,
there's a column that says weight.
Currently, each one is set at five.
If you increase or decrease
the weight for each song,
it increases, in this case seven,
or decreases, in this case I've set it
to two for the second song,
decreases the chances of it
being the next item to be played.
So it's a random playlist that
randomly picks from the media,
but based on the weightings you set here,
the chances of it being the next
item to be played are lower.
I'll just simply select
sequential as a simple test.
All I need to do,
if you want to remove items, by the way,
you can use the Remove Items option.
But I'm just going to
simply Save Changes.
And I now have a running playlist.
So it's really that simple.
I'll go back to main.
Now, if I can switch to computer 3,
let's play that playlist
and see what it looks like.
So I'll open up QuickTime Player.
Again,
I'm just going to go directly to it.
Normally,
you would get to this via a web page.
Does anyone notice anything
different about this URL over the
previous ones I typed in this box?
I heard someone say it.
There's no file extension.
So whoever said no file extension,
gold star.
There's no file extension.
The reason is because we're
actually taking that content that's
prerecorded and we're making it
seem like a live piece of stream.
Any live stream,
it's just simply the name of
what's called the mount point.
In this case, it was test.
We don't need to enter in the extension,
which in this case, behind the scenes,
is .sdp.
That's just simply a file behind
the scenes that keeps the details
of that particular stream in check.
All we need to do is enter in test
in this case instead of test.sdp.
And if all works well,
we will listen to our--
Oh, we haven't listened to our... Ooh,
I'll check my playlist.
I'll tell you in just a moment what
I didn't do there and why it didn't work.
I realize exactly why.
OK, let's try that one more time now
that things are actually running.
This is a running playlist, right?
Test.
Anyone notice any
differences in terms of...
Turn the sound just down a touch.
Anyone notice any difference in the
player in terms of the interface
it's offering you over what we played
when we had the chilis running?
There's no thumb bar where you
can skip through the media,
right?
It just says live broadcast and
it just kicks right down to pause,
fast forward, stop, volume controls.
So there's no bar where you
can thumb through the media,
right?
Simulated live.
It's content that we
already have prepared,
but the Stream Server makes
it look like it's live.
Just like radio stations,
they already have A-tracks and
CD players and all that stuff
all set up in the DJ booth.
They pop it all in and they play
it and it goes over the air.
You don't know the difference.
Your radio just plays it back as is.
Exactly the same experience here.
This is great to use on a campus, school,
company for announcements, updates,
financial stats,
whatever you want to use it for.
You don't have to be streaming
commercially available songs
in order to make use of this.
You literally can have content
that's appropriate to your particular
organization and use this technique to
deliver information in a timely fashion.
One of the examples of this use
that I saw was quite ingenious.
I literally did a 20-minute demo
of QuickTime Streaming Server for
a math teacher at a school.
They had a slightly older server,
perfectly suitable,
where I had QuickTime Streaming Server.
He sat down in front of iMovie,
of all things, and recorded in his
math problems each week.
He read off 10 questions that
the fifth graders needed to do.
You go into iMovie and export
those files out of iMovie.
Of course, he hinted them and put it
on his streaming server,
and he just let the playlist loop.
He created the playlist and let
it loop over and over again.
The students would go to the library or
go to any other computer in the school,
and they could listen to the math
problems instead of just being able
to read them on the actual paper.
He would state details like
when the assignments were due,
other details you might
want to check out,
pages in the math book
that might be appropriate.
So don't just think streaming radio
station with your favorite Liz Phair
song or whatever it happens to be.
There's other applications
that are really appropriate.
Great, let's switch back to computer two.
I just want to point out briefly
what it was that I missed.
Let's switch to computer two.
Now, I saved the playlist and I switched
over to computer three in a big rush
because I'm all pumped up for my demo,
but I forgot to do one thing.
I forgot to actually
press the play button.
Now, it currently says stop.
You need to press the play button
to start the playlist in order for
your playlist to start running.
So you'll notice that the
status now says playing.
I simply switched back to here,
turned it on,
and then we got our playlist running.
I'll click stop.
The playlist has stopped.
No one can listen to it.
If anyone's currently
listening to the playlist,
they'll get blank.
Dead air.
Okay.
Let's...
Sorry, what's that?
You can still hear it
playing for a while.
Oh, it will play for-- sorry,
the question was,
it's still playing for a few minutes.
Well, remember I mentioned the
buffering the client will do?
It will queue up a few seconds of audio
or video to make sure it can survive
some of the bumpiness of the internet.
Usually,
it will play for five to eight seconds,
and it will cut out.
But definitely,
if someone tried to connect
to the playlist right now,
they will definitely get nothing.
They'll get dead air.
I'll take questions at the end,
but that's a good one.
So the question is,
what's the situation with the media
you have to add to the playlist?
This is detailed in a very,
very clear form in the documentation
that comes with the streaming server.
You can access that help, by the way,
that documentation via
the good old question mark
button in the web interface.
If you were to search through
this particular help guide,
it will tell you that playlist media
needs to have the exact same parameters.
So if you're playing video,
they all have to be the
exact same frame size.
They should use the exact
same codecs to compress them,
and they should be similar in all
other aspects wherever possible.
In terms of MP3 playlists,
just as a side note,
the only real requirement with
those is to make sure that the rate
at which the audio is originally
recorded is exactly the same.
So typically,
audio is done at 44.1 kilohertz.
That's really the only thing for
MP3s that need to be consistent.
The bit rate for MP3s
can be wildly different,
and the server will handle it properly.
So check out the help for more details
on exactly what those parameters are,
but video frame size,
the type of compression that
we use should all be the same.
Let's switch back to slides.
Back to slides.
So we talked about video on demand.
We talked about playlists.
Very easy to do.
Last but not least, live streaming.
The only way to send content
out to the internet as it
happens is using this technique.
How many folks consider that one
of their main interests in terms of
streaming server and the related pieces?
Yeah, always about 30% to 40% of the
folks are curious about that.
It just takes one Steve Jobs keynote,
and then you're hooked.
You want to run your own live event.
So live streaming,
using a camera and QuickTime broadcaster
is the only way to really do it.
You can't do it by using a web
server or some other contraption.
You have to have a piece of software
I generically call a live encoder.
There's actually a product
from Apple available for free
called QuickTime Broadcaster.
And you really just connect any
AV equipment that you've got
connectors for on the back of your Mac.
In this case, I'm using a camera with
a firewall connector.
I'm going to plug it into
the back of the Macintosh,
turn the camera on, and use that.
One of the best things
about the MPEG-4 format,
as a side note,
is it has a phenomenal codec
built into it called AAC.
I'm sure you might be interested
in checking out some of
the other MPEG-4 sessions.
That's a phenomenal codec for
doing audio-only broadcasts,
in case you're curious.
We obviously use this technique for all
our keynotes and WWDC major speeches.
Let's switch over to... Actually, sorry.
Here's a diagram of exactly what a
live streaming event can look like.
Of course,
you may have more or less iMacs
connected on the right-hand side,
depending on how popular your event is,
but it essentially follows this model.
You've got a camera,
likely connected to a
live encoder machine.
In this case,
we're using a PowerBook as an example.
And of course,
everyone wants to have an XServe
as their QuickTime streaming
server on the back end,
so we've got that in our diagram.
And that streaming server sends
information out to the clients.
If someone's thinking that you might be
able to use that XServe for both live
encoding and to deliver the streams,
you're right.
You can actually use one box for both,
but only for small events.
I wouldn't recommend it for
anything even remotely large.
If you have a small audience,
say 20 or 30 people,
or short pieces of content
that you want to just do live,
a five-minute speech, very few people,
you can use one machine.
I have a feeling for our events,
we probably use more than one machine.
So let's do a demo of Broadcaster.
I'll show it to you.
Hopefully everything works
perfectly well as anticipated.
In the applications
folder in Panther Server,
you have a great little tool
called QuickTime Broadcaster.
It's a Cocoa application
written at Apple.
I'm going to simply turn on my camera.
This is a standard video camera.
It's just a mini DV camera
with a FireWire jack on it.
Nothing too magical, nothing too complex.
I'll launch Broadcaster.
It's a little hard to see because
the room's a little on the dark side.
What we have is--
We've got a preview screen.
This is Broadcaster in simple mode.
We've got some buttons
there to choose from,
some presets, and that's pretty much it.
Very, very easy.
Broadcaster is extremely easy to use.
If you had already set things up,
you could pick from these lists
and literally click Broadcast.
If you click Show Details,
we get a little more extensive interface,
and I'll just quickly step
you through the three.
For this particular demo broadcast,
I'm not going to do audio just
because we've got other speakers going
on and I don't want any feedback,
so I'll deselect audio.
You can see in the interface down here,
you can select all sorts of options,
the right codecs,
the right speed selections,
whatever you want to pick.
For video, I'll pick one of the presets.
QuickTime Broadcaster comes
with some nice presets.
If you're not sure exactly
what to set in the interface,
you can pick something
that's appropriate.
If you're doing a modem stream,
select the modem options.
If you have a high-speed connection
that you want to deliver content to,
live content to, select DSL or LAN,
for example.
I'll pick DSL.
I'll pick DSL Cable High Motion,
for example.
That presets all of these options
below so that I don't have to
remember every time what to set.
Under Network, again,
there's a preset that you
can configure if you like.
All it really takes is entering in
the name of the streaming server you
want to send the live content to.
In this case, I'm using the same machine
to stream to itself,
the one box solution.
I can name the stream.
This is very similar to test,
which is what we did for the playlist.
I require a username and password.
There's an admin password
you need to use in order to
broadcast to the streaming server.
And of course,
we can set some details that appear in
the info panel on the QuickTime player.
You literally can click broadcast.
It's going to request a password.
I will enter my super secret password.
Clicking Broadcast will literally
start taking content from this camera,
bring it down the firewall
cable into the computer,
taking that content, compressing it,
hinting it, and sending it to the server,
which in this case is the same machine.
So you can imagine that that
live encoding machine that's
underneath the counter here is
working really hard to do this job.
That's why for larger events,
you often want to have one computer
for a live encoder and one box
doing the streaming server.
So I'm broadcasting.
I've got some details about the
current status of my broadcast.
and some details.
You might notice that if you wave
in front of the video camera,
you may not see that once I start
showing you the stream on the client.
There's roughly between six to
eight seconds delay between the
live encoding software doing its
job and ending up on the client.
That's to make sure that the streaming
server can average out the streams
and make sure everything is sanitized
before it gets sent out to the world.
You would never normally see that
because typically your clients
aren't sitting in front of the
camera that's pointing at them,
right?
In the real world,
they don't know there's
a six-second delay.
Just like in radio,
they have a six-second delay, right?
You would never know unless you stood
inside of a radio broadcast booth.
Let's switch over to computer three,
and let's fire up this stream
and see what it looks like.
So everyone in the front row,
I want you to smile pretty
and give me a nice pose.
We'll go open a new--
I'll type in RTSP colon slash slash,
the IP address of my
stream server on my stream,
just to get this running.
There we go.
It's that easy.
Thank you.
If any folks have done any kind of
live broadcasting previous to this,
you may remember in a shudder that
you may have had to copy files
up to the server from this live
encoder and it spit out a file and
I didn't know what the file did,
but I had to get it up to
this certain directory.
QuickTime Broadcaster uses
a technique called announce.
That means that the
live encoder software,
QuickTime Broadcaster,
can simply alert the
streaming server that,
hey, I'm going to start a stream.
Here's all the details.
The streaming server will automatically
create those files locally on the
server in the right directory and
do all the right things as long as
we enter the correct information into
the QuickTime Broadcaster itself.
So that situation where you have
to copy files and I don't have
file sharing turned on and how
do I FTP off the command line,
you don't have to worry about any
of that using QuickTime Broadcaster
because it uses announce.
So we've got our stream running.
This is a moderate speed stream.
We can see that all the information
that I typed in in the extended
panel in QuickTime Broadcaster,
right, enter the key TSS,
all that information ends
up in the info panel,
right?
The top name obviously populates to
the top of the QuickTime player panel,
and it's working perfectly.
Let's switch back to slides.
"I'm still testing the six second delay.
If I do this, it's amazing.
There's nothing like a
QuickTime Broadcaster to
make people act goofy.
Because when I first turned it on,
I was like, 'Ooh,
I was doing lots of crazy things in
front of it,' and then my boss walked in.
So it was not a good scene."
Unfortunately,
I can't demo this particular app,
but it is on the way.
How many folks went to the State of
the Union for QuickTime this morning,
first thing?
So you did probably get a glimpse of it,
if I understand what
the agenda was for that.
QTSS Publisher,
another Cocoa application.
This runs on Mac OS X server only,
and it connects to
QuickTime Streaming Server only.
So this particular discussion does
not apply to Darwin Streaming Server.
This is a Cocoa tool that
helps you manage your media.
Just like we set up playlists,
and just like we hinted content,
the publisher takes care of that
process for you automatically.
Simply adding content to
the publisher window will
automatically upload your content,
hint it, put it in the right directory,
you can even make a playlist with
it in less than five seconds.
It's a very, very good tool.
It's not quite baked yet.
It will be included with the
QuickTime Stream Server 5 package.
I encourage you to go check it out.
It's impressive.
I've been playing with
the early versions of it,
and it's very, very good.
The streaming playlist
management is great.
And that's a Cocoa application.
You need to run it from either
Mac OS X or Mac OS X server.
You can run it remotely,
just like the web admin,
except you need to be sitting on a
Mac OS X based workstation to run it.
I believe the publisher
will be Panther only,
but please read the final release
notes in order to determine
exactly what the compatibility is.
So wrap up, let's take a look at whether
sessions are happening this week
that you probably care about.
If you feel energized from this session,
you're totally pumped up and you
want to go into the advanced session,
there is an administering
QuickTime Streaming Server session.
I believe it's tomorrow.
Please check that out.
That's with the QuickTime Streaming
Server engineering team.
Very, very useful.
Great session for the authoring side,
previous to streaming content.
You can check out session 710,
which is pre-processing principles,
which is always good stuff.
In this room, following this session,
we have a great session coming
up on QuickTime on the campus,
a case study of how QuickTime is
being used on campuses.
We've also got lots of other
great sessions going on.
Of course, QuickTime for the web.
If you're interested on how I would
take that stream and get it onto
a web page and make it look great,
check out session 712
with Stephen Gooley.
Excellent session on how to
get your content announced and
out there and out to the world.
Again, more great sessions.
Streaming Server Programming,
if you're more on the programming ilk,
like I say, Terminal is your best friend.
Xcode is your best friend.
You can check out session 727 if
you want to learn about the guts
from a programming standpoint
of the streaming server.
Of course,
even more sessions to check out.
Who to contact?
In general, Guillermo Ortiz,
QuickTime technology manager.
Of course,
he's got the infamous email address,
QuickTimeMan at Apple.com, right?
You can contact him if you have questions
about the topic of streaming in general,
QuickTime in general.
If you have questions specifically about
this session and only this session,
please contact me.
You can email me at the
address on the slides.
I can only answer questions
about this particular session.
I think I may rewrite you to Guillermo
if they are outside the scope.
For more information, here's some useful
URLs that I found very,
very valuable to myself.
The QuickTime Streaming, Darwin Streaming
Server Administration's guide,
I definitely recommend.
It's a PDF you can download.
I believe it's even included on the
CDs you received during the conference.
Please check that guide out.
A lot of folks did hard work on it.
It's a really good stepping stone
to take you beyond this session.
General information,
you can check out the
QuickTime portion of the Apple site.
Developer documentation available there.
You got some reference resources,
of course.
The course that I wrote,
QuickTime Streaming,
is still being taught.
And it's available to--
it's being run in the US,
and I believe beyond.
You can check out the URL at
the top there to get more
information about that course.
It's a three-day course
taught in the classroom.
It covers a lot more
than what we did today.
And some excellent books to refer to.
Knowledge-based articles.
I'll probably bring these back up
on screen after the session's done,
but there's two or three good,
excellent knowledge-based articles
available from Apple's website that
I find helpful if I back myself into
the corner with the streaming server.
And of course,
do not miss the QuickTime labs
that are located downstairs.
There are folks that you will
love to talk to and meet,
engineers, very,
very skilled media authors,
and folks downstairs
that you want to chat.
It's down in the Sacramento room.
Please check it out.
Have a chat with those folks.
Introduce yourself.
Talk to them about what you're doing.
Bring them your code if
you're doing development.
Talk to them about your setup.
They'll be happy to chat with
you and answer your questions.